vagrant/README.md, before:

# RSR Vagrant Development Environment 

## System setup

If you have never used Vagrant or the RSR Vagrant development environment, follow these steps first.

1. Ensure you have at least Vagrant version 1.2 installed:
    
```bash
$ vagrant version
Installed Version: 1.7.2
Latest Version: 1.7.2
```

If you don't have Vagrant installed or if you have an old version installed, head over to [http://vagrantup.com](http://vagrantup.com) to get it.
   
2. Ensure you have Oracle VirtualBox installed. If not, you can get it here: [https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

## First Start Up

The first time you use the RSR environment:

1. Run `scripts/devhelpers/setup_etc_hosts.sh` - this will add the necessary entries to your `/etc/hosts` file to be able to access the RSR server

2. Go into the vagrant directory and start the Vagrant box: `cd vagrant` then `vagrant up`. The first time will take a long time, as it will first download the base RSR virtual machine. Once this is done, it will update and install the required python packages if any have changed.

3. Try out [http://rsr.localdev.akvo.org/](http://rsr.localdev.akvo.org/)

## Upgrading

Periodically there will be a new base RSR machine available, which will have updated infrastructure and supporting services. When this is the case, simply `vagrant destroy` to delete your old VM, then `vagrant up` as before; a completely new machine will be created.

You may also want to clean up the old base boxes. They can be found in `$HOME/.vagrant.d/boxes` on Mac OS X, Linux and other Unix systems. You can simply remove old ones that you do not use. 


## About the VM

The virtual machine is provisioned with the same [Puppet](http://puppetlabs.com/puppet/what-is-puppet) configuration as the produciton machines. This means that developing locally should take place using exactly the same setup as production.


## FAQ

##### Q: How do I see debug log output?
**A**: By default, the RSR django application is run by [gunicorn](http://gunicorn.org/) to match the production servers. However for development, it's much easier to use the django debug server. To do this, first stop the gunicorn process, then start the debug server:

```bash
scripts/devhelpers/supervisorctl.sh stop rsr rsr_reload
scripts/devhelpers/manage.sh runserver
```
         
##### Q: How do I migrate or get a Django shell?
**A**: There is a helper script at `scripts/devhelpers/manage.sh` which behaves exactly like the regular Django `python manage.py…`. It will ssh into the VM and execute the command you give it, eg `manage.sh migrate` or `manage.sh shell`

##### Q: How do I access a partnersite?
**A**: You will need to add an entry to your `/etc/hosts` file (or Windows equivalent), and point either `<partner_name>.localdev.akvo.org` or `<partner_name>.localakvoapp.org` to `192.168.50.101` -  for example, add this line to be able to access the Cordaid partner site:

```
192.168.50.101 cordaid.localdev.akvo.org
192.168.50.101 cordaid.localakvoapp.org
```
       
##### Q: How do I update the Python package dependencies?
**A**: The virtualenv on the virtual machine will be updated to match the `requirements.txt` file in your checkout when it is provisioned. This happens when the machine is booted (`vagrant up`) or you can make it happen manually by running `vagrant provision`. If you change it, for example to add a new dependency or bump a dependency version, `vagrant provision` will bring the virtualenv up to date.

##### Q: I get a 502! Why?
**A**: Ensure that RSR is running. You should either be using gunicorn or the Django development server. To see if gunicorn is running, run `scripts/devhelpers/supervisorctl.sh`. You will see `rsr      RUNNING` or similar if everythig is fine. Chances are, a 502 means that no RSR app is running.



## Helpful notes

* When you are done developing, run `vagrant halt` to shut down the virtual machine, or it'll just sit there consuming system resources.
 
* Run `vagrant ssh` to ssh into the virtual machine. You will then be logged in as the `vagrant` user, who can use sudo without a password.

* The RSR application information is in `/var/akvo/rsr/`

* The `akvo-rsr` repository from your local machine is synced to the virtual machine, and the RSR application will restart when you make code changes.


## Useful scripts

There are a variety of useful scripts in `scripts/devehelpers`:

* `setup_etc_hosts.sh` will add the necessary IP/address combinations to your `/etc/hosts` file. `cleanup_etc_hosts.sh` will remove them again.

* `manage.sh` will connect to the virtual machine and run `python manage.py`. You can use it just like `python manage.py`, eg, `manage.sh shell`

* `supervisorctl.sh` will connect you to the supervisor service, allowing you to manually start and stop RSR if it is running as a service.

Commit message:

[#2622] Add documentation on how to upgrade Guest additions for VB on OS X

vagrant/README.md, after:

# RSR Vagrant Development Environment 

## System setup

If you have never used Vagrant or the RSR Vagrant development environment, follow these steps first.

1. Ensure you have at least Vagrant version 1.2 installed:
    
```bash
$ vagrant version
Installed Version: 1.7.2
Latest Version: 1.7.2
```

If you don't have Vagrant installed or if you have an old version installed, head over to [http://vagrantup.com](http://vagrantup.com) to get it.
   
2. Ensure you have Oracle VirtualBox installed. If not, you can get it here: [https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

## First Start Up

The first time you use the RSR environment:

1. Run `scripts/devhelpers/setup_etc_hosts.sh` - this will add the necessary entries to your `/etc/hosts` file to be able to access the RSR server

2. Go into the vagrant directory and start the Vagrant box: `cd vagrant` then `vagrant up`. The first time will take a long time, as it will first download the base RSR virtual machine. Once this is done, it will update and install the required python packages if any have changed.

3. Try out [http://rsr.localdev.akvo.org/](http://rsr.localdev.akvo.org/)

## Upgrading

Periodically there will be a new base RSR machine available, which will have updated infrastructure and supporting services. When this is the case, simply `vagrant destroy` to delete your old VM, then `vagrant up` as before; a completely new machine will be created.

You may also want to clean up the old base boxes. They can be found in `$HOME/.vagrant.d/boxes` on Mac OS X, Linux and other Unix systems. You can simply remove old ones that you do not use. 

## Upgrading Virtualbox on Mac OS X

To run properly software that's called Guest addisions needs to be installed on the VM. One issue that may otherwise occur is that the shared folder doesn't properly mount. The documentation on how to install or upgrade guest additions is flaky at best, at least for Mac OS X. The following links helped a lot: [Blog on using Virtualbox on Mac OSX](http://www.bogotobogo.com/Linux/Ubuntu_Desktop_on_Mac_OSX_using_VirtualBox_4_3_II.php) is a good start and boils down to mounting VBoxGuestAdditions.iso, which can be found in the package contents of Virtualbox.app, in the emulated CD of the VM. When the image is mounted, run the following _in the VM_:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install dkms -y
$ cd /media
$ sudo mkdir vbox
$ sudo mount /dev/sr0 vbox/
$ cd vbox/
$ sudo sh ./VBoxLinuxAdditions.run
```

However when the scrip has run you get an error message related to the wrong Linux kernel version. After much head scratching a comment in [this Superuser post](https://superuser.com/questions/499059/unable-to-install-virtualbox-specify-kern-dir-directory-installing-vir) helped, the gist of the solution is to run ```sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get -y dist-upgrade```. This can probably be done before deploying the actual guest additions.

## About the VM

The virtual machine is provisioned with the same [Puppet](http://puppetlabs.com/puppet/what-is-puppet) configuration as the produciton machines. This means that developing locally should take place using exactly the same setup as production.


## FAQ

##### Q: How do I see debug log output?
**A**: By default, the RSR django application is run by [gunicorn](http://gunicorn.org/) to match the production servers. However for development, it's much easier to use the django debug server. To do this, first stop the gunicorn process, then start the debug server:

```bash
scripts/devhelpers/supervisorctl.sh stop rsr rsr_reload
scripts/devhelpers/manage.sh runserver
```
         
##### Q: How do I migrate or get a Django shell?
**A**: There is a helper script at `scripts/devhelpers/manage.sh` which behaves exactly like the regular Django `python manage.py…`. It will ssh into the VM and execute the command you give it, eg `manage.sh migrate` or `manage.sh shell`

##### Q: How do I access a partnersite?
**A**: You will need to add an entry to your `/etc/hosts` file (or Windows equivalent), and point either `<partner_name>.localdev.akvo.org` or `<partner_name>.localakvoapp.org` to `192.168.50.101` -  for example, add this line to be able to access the Cordaid partner site:

```
192.168.50.101 cordaid.localdev.akvo.org
192.168.50.101 cordaid.localakvoapp.org
```
       
##### Q: How do I update the Python package dependencies?
**A**: The virtualenv on the virtual machine will be updated to match the `requirements.txt` file in your checkout when it is provisioned. This happens when the machine is booted (`vagrant up`) or you can make it happen manually by running `vagrant provision`. If you change it, for example to add a new dependency or bump a dependency version, `vagrant provision` will bring the virtualenv up to date.

##### Q: I get a 502! Why?
**A**: Ensure that RSR is running. You should either be using gunicorn or the Django development server. To see if gunicorn is running, run `scripts/devhelpers/supervisorctl.sh`. You will see `rsr      RUNNING` or similar if everythig is fine. Chances are, a 502 means that no RSR app is running.



## Helpful notes

* When you are done developing, run `vagrant halt` to shut down the virtual machine, or it'll just sit there consuming system resources.
 
* Run `vagrant ssh` to ssh into the virtual machine. You will then be logged in as the `vagrant` user, who can use sudo without a password.

* The RSR application information is in `/var/akvo/rsr/`

* The `akvo-rsr` repository from your local machine is synced to the virtual machine, and the RSR application will restart when you make code changes.


## Useful scripts

There are a variety of useful scripts in `scripts/devehelpers`:

* `setup_etc_hosts.sh` will add the necessary IP/address combinations to your `/etc/hosts` file. `cleanup_etc_hosts.sh` will remove them again.

* `manage.sh` will connect to the virtual machine and run `python manage.py`. You can use it just like `python manage.py`, eg, `manage.sh shell`

* `supervisorctl.sh` will connect you to the supervisor service, allowing you to manually start and stop RSR if it is running as a service.
